Add Solr 9 GA release note for D7 & D10+ (#10133)
pantheon-systems/documentation: src/source/releasenotes/2026-06-29-solr-9-ga.md

---
title: Solr 9 now generally available on Pantheon
published_date: "2026-06-29"
categories: [new-feature, drupal]
---

Pantheon Search now supports [Apache Solr 9.10.1](https://solr.apache.org/guide/solr/latest/) for Drupal 7, 10, and 11 sites, with improved security defaults, the unified highlighter, and performance enhancements. See the [major changes in Solr 9](https://solr.apache.org/guide/solr/latest/upgrade-notes/major-changes-in-solr-9.html) for details.

## How to get Solr 9

### Drupal 10 and 11

Solr 9 support is available through [Search API Pantheon](https://www.drupal.org/project/search_api_pantheon) version **8.5.0**.

For detailed setup instructions, see the [Solr for Drupal 10/11 guide](/guides/solr-drupal/solr-drupal).

### Drupal 7

Solr 9 support is available through the **Pantheon Drupal 7 upstream version 7.105.1**.

For detailed setup instructions, see the [Solr for Drupal 7 guide](/guides/solr-drupal/solr-drupal-7).

## Solr 3 and Solr 8 removal timeline

> With Solr 9 now generally available, the previously announced [removal schedule](/release-notes/2026/05/solr-9-ga-solr-3-8-removal-dates) is in effect:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previously announced [removal schedule](/release-notes/2026/05/solr-9-ga-solr-3-8-removal-dates) still holds:
```

> - **Solr 3** will be removed on **February 9, 2027**. Drupal 7 sites using Solr 3 must migrate to Solr 9 before this date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Solr 3** will be removed on **February 9, 2027**. Drupal sites using Solr 3 must migrate to Solr 9 before this date. WordPress sites using Solr 3 through the [Solr Power](https://wordpress.org/plugins/solr-power/) plugin should consider switching to [Elasticsearch](/guides/pantheon-search/elasticsearch).
```
